Hemodynamic response to exercise after beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol in patients with mitral valve obstruction.<<<<Propranolol (P) .13 mg./kg. was given to seven patients with mitral valve obstruction the changes in resting and exercise hemodynamics were followed by means of combined right and left heart catheterization. Changes were variable. At rest there was a decrease in heart rate of 10 beats/min. with no consistent change in stroke volume, cardiac output, left ventricular systolic (LVS) or left atrial (LA) pressure after P. Mean left ventricular end-diastolic (LVED) pressure was increased 3 mm., mean pulmonary artery (PA) pressure was increased 4 mm., and mean mitral valve gradient was reduced 3 mm. Hg by P. During exercise, mean LVS pressure was decreased 31 mm., mean LVED pressure increased 3 mm., mean LA pressure decreased 3 mm., and mean mitral valve gradient was reduced 5 mm. Hg after P. Mean exercise PA pressure was unchanged, cardiac output was reduced 0.9 1./min., and mean heart rate was reduced 37 beats/min., while stroke volume increased 3 ml./beat after P. Exercise pulmonary vascular resistance was increased from 6.1 to 8.2 units by P. Despite a slower heart rate, the diastolic filling period was not increased. P has no place in the treatment of the majority of patients with mitral stenosis because it further reduces cardiac performance below normal.<<<<
Medical and psychosocial aspects of the habilitation of thalidomide children.<<<<The habilitation of 34 thalidomide children, begun in 1963 at the Rehabilitation Institute of Montreal, involved the contribution of many medical and paramedical disciplines. These individual contributions are described.Habilitation of congenitally deformed children must be initiated at an early age. The early prescription of a prosthesis is desirable. Their care involves a broad range of services that must be continued over many years. Parents require support before they can accept the misfortune that has befallen them and their deformed child. Despite the necessity of frequent hospitalizations, children should be reared in a home setting. From their experience, the authors conclude that children born with malformations, and their parents, should be thoroughly evaluated and followed up for many years; and recommend that governments should finance programs for the complete habilitation of all children born with congenital malformations. National registries for the compulsory recording of birth deformities should also be established.<<<<
Skin temperature recording with phosphors: toxicity studies on animals.<<<<In a previous communication in this journal, a method was described for converting invisible thermal patterns of the human skin into a detailed visible picture. At that time, the question of possible toxicity of the thermographic phosphor was raised. Toxicity studies conducted on laboratory animals indicate that the probability of toxic side reactions resulting from the use of zinc-cadmium sulfide phosphor spray is very low.<<<<
Benzoyl peroxide and sulfur: foundation for acne management.<<<<One hundred and thirteen consecutive patients with acne were studied by qualified dermatologists during a trial of topical 10% benzoyl peroxide and 2%-5% sulfur cream. The results were considered "good" to "excellent" in both office and clinic situations. The method was remarkably free of undesirable side effects. The program has been adopted as a standard acne regimen at the dermatology clinic of the Royal Victoria Hospital, Montreal.<<<<
A clinical trial of cephaloridine.<<<<Cephaloridine, a cephalosporin derivative, was administered to 30 selected patients, including 19 with moderate to severe impairment of renal function. This antibiotic eradicated infections due to Staphylococcus pyogenes, and urinary tract infections due to a single member of the species Escherichia coli or Aerobacter aerogenes, which were sensitive to the drug on bacteriological testing. The drug failed in mixed urinary tract infections.No adverse effects were observed except for the development of superinfection in patients with urinary tract infections. No allergic reactions were noted in 10 patients who had reported previous reactions to penicillin.From these studies in patients with renal disease, approximations can be made concerning dose requirements in these special cases. Because of the apparent absence of dose-related toxic effects in humans, cephaloridine was particularly useful in the treatment of patients with renal disease and infections due to susceptible bacteria.<<<<
Small bowel obstruction due to intramural hematoma during anticoagulant therapy, a non-surgical condition.<<<<Intramural hematoma of the small bowel should be suspected in any patient with signs or symptoms of small bowel obstruction who is having anticoagulant drug therapy, especially if it is longterm therapy and if the prothrombin time is excessively prolonged. A barium study is indicated and if the roentgen pattern is characteristic, conservative treatment is indicated. Unless there is an associated abdominal lesion requiring operation, most patients will improve in four to six days. Those not improving usually have other complicating conditions.<<<<
Ocular manifestations after enovid.<<<<Presented is a case of bilateral retinal edema in a patient with a ventricular septal defect. The edema absorbed after cessation of Enovid and treatment with ACTH. It is hoped that this case presentation will stimulate the reporting by ophthalmologists of any similar experience.<<<<
Successful estrogen therapy for post-adrenalectomy relapses of breast cancer.<<<<Four postmenopausal women are described in whom breast cancer responded both to bilateral adrenalectomy and bilateral oophorectomy, and subsequently, after relapse, to estrogen therapy. This paradoxical finding demonstrates the complexity of the response of breast carcinoma to hormone manipulations. Simple estrogen dependence and estrogen suppression of pituitary mammotrophins are seen to be inadequate explanations of this phenomenon. Seven fundamental observations are listed that have to be accounted for by hypotheses concerning the endocrinology of breast cancer. It is suggested that in the past we have perhaps overlooked (1) the difficulty of extrapolating observations on experimental animal tumours to spontaneous human neoplasms, (2) the fact that there may be more than one type of breast cancer, and (3) the important role that must be played by the different tissues bearing the metastases.<<<<
Effects of novobiocin on liver function. Clinical study.<<<<A case of novobiocin-induced jaundice is described in which the main feature was elevated unconjugated bilirubin in the serum. No evidence of hemolysis or hepato-cellular failure was demonstrated.The effect of novobiocin on serum bilirubin was studied by administering 2 g. of the drug daily in four divided oral doses for two days. An increase in serum unconjugated bilirubin was nearly always observed in the normal subjects and in patients with cirrhosis of the liver. This rise was particularly significant in three patients with hemolytic anemia and in two patients with Gilbert's disease. After an oral dose of 500 mg. the BSP clearance was decreased after one hour and it was close to normal after three hours. Since hemolysis is not responsible for this elevation of serum unconjugated bilirubin, the novobiocin-induced hyperbilirubinemia appears to be due to a direct effect of the drug upon the liver.<<<<
Tris buffer (THAM). An appraisal of its physiologic effects and clinical usefulness.<<<<It has been the purpose of this discussion to review critically the physiologic considerations and clinical evidence regarding the use of Tris buffer in the treatment of acid-base disorders. It is concluded that there is little current evidence, theoretical, experimental, or clinical, to support the view that Tris has a significant therapeutic role. Some possible exceptions to this general conclusion are considered.<<<<
Hemorrhage during long-term anticoagulant drug therapy. IV. Selection and management of patients.<<<<Most serious hemorrhages that occur during long-term anticoagulant drug therapy are due either to poor patient selection or to poor management of the patient, or both. In each patient being considered for treatment, the risk of bleeding must be evaluated and classified as high, moderate or low. The clinician must especially assess the risk of intracranial hemorrhage in hypertensive patients, and must screen all patients for potential sources of gastrointestinal bleeding. There is ample time for such investigations, since initiating long-term anticoagulant therapy is not an emergency procedure. The desired level of prothrombin activity must be adjusted to the risks determined for each individual patient. There is no single "therapeutic range" applicable to all patients with their varying hemorrhagenic risks. Proper management includes sufficient laboratory testing to maintain the desired prothrombin level, and continued vigilance to detect signs of early bleeding.Preventable hemorrhage cannot be cited as evidence against the value of anticoagulant drug therapy.<<<<
Evaluation of an antispasmodic agent. Methixene hydrochloride (Trest).<<<<Methixene hydrochloride, an anticholinergic agent, may be useful in the symptomatic treatment of functional bowel disorders. Adverse effects reported from its use are those of the anticholinergic drugs in general.<<<<
Hemorrhage during long-term anticoagulant drug therapy. 3. The relationship of minor to serious bleeding.<<<<In a study of reports of 805 instances of spontaneous bleeding occurring among 2,189 patients receiving long-term anticoagulant drug therapy, 124 episodes were considered serious and 681 minor. There was no significant correlation of minor bleeding and serious bleeding. Minor bleeding unassociated with excessive reduction of coagulability or an underlying organic lesion could not be considered, according to this evidence, an indication for discontinuance of anticoagulant drug therapy. In apparently minor internal bleeding, however, hidden underlying organic lesions must be excluded. If gross hematuria occurs, renal lesions must be excluded. Rectal bleeding must not be considered minor until gastrointestinal lesions have been excluded.<<<<
Hemorrhage during long-term anticoagulant drug therapy. II. Gastrointestinal hemorrhage.<<<<Most of the gastrointestinal hemorrhages occurring during long-term anticoagulant drug therapy of 2,013 patients (reported in the literature) were caused by underlying lesions (44 to 77). Of the 44 lesions, only seven were diagnosed before treatment was started. Most of the episodes of hemorrhage occurred with the prothrombin activity at a so-called "safe" level. Closer investigation before the anticoagulant therapy was begun might have brought the underlying lesion to light.<<<<
Hemorrhage during long-term anticoagulant drug therapy. 1. Intracranial hemmorrhage.<<<<Intracranial hemorrhage was the most serious hemorrhage as measured by death and disability, occurring during long-term anticoagulant drug therapy of 1,626 patients. Among 95 hemorrhagic episodes considered life-threatening or potentially crippling, 30 were intracranial and 56 were gastrointestinal. Over two-thirds of the patients with intracranial hemorrhage died, as against one-tenth of those with gastrointestinal hemorrhage. The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage is increased among hypertensive patients, but the results of a controlled study indicate that the incidence of intracranial hemorrhage is not affected by whether or not the hypertensive patient is receiving anticoagulant therapy. Hypertension is the important precipitating factor, not the prothrombin level. Even at excessively low prothrombin levels only one intracranial hemorrhage occurred in 337 instances. In this series, reducing coagulability to a desirable range did not increase the probability of intracranial hemorrhage. Once bleeding occurred, however, it increased the risk of death and disability.<<<<
Hepatic fibrosis in a child possibly due to prolonged methotrexate.<<<<A case is described in which marked hepatic fibrosis probably resulted from the prolonged treatment of acute leukaemia with methotrexate.<<<<
Field trials of ambilhar in the treatment of urinary bilharziasis in schoolchildren.<<<<The deficiencies of the drugs used for the treatment of bilharziasis have limited attempts at control of the disease by chemotherapy. The present paper records a series of field trials with a new, orally administered, non-metallic schistosomicide, Ambilhar, in schoolchildren in an area of endemic urinary bilharziasis in Tanzania. The results indicate that the compound represents an important advance in the chemotherapy of Schistosoma haematobium infections. High cure rates and marked reduction of egg excretion in those not cured reveal prospects of wider population coverage by drug treatment of schoolchildren, the age-group most at risk and most in need of treatment.<<<<
The haemolytic effects of diaphenylsulfone (DDS) in normal subjects and in those with glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency.<<<<The need to investigate further the phenomenon of sulfone-induced haemolysis is becoming greater as the use of sulfones may increase, particularly for malaria therapy in areas where Plasmodium falciparum is found to be resistant to chloroquine. The authors report on studies of the haemolytic effects of diaphenylsulfone (DDS) administered orally, in doses ranging from 25 mg to 300 mg daily for 21 days, to normal healthy men and to healthy Negro men with deficiency of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD). The latter proved more susceptible to diaphenylsulfone-induced haemolysis than did normal men. There was a direct relationship between the dose of diaphenylsulfone and the extent of haemolysis in both groups of men studied. Comparison of the haemolytic effects of diaphenylsulfone with those of the antimalarial drug primaquine revealed that, on a dose for weight basis, diaphenylsulfone is more haemolytic than primaquine in normal persons and less so in G-6-PD-deficient persons. A marked decrease in the content of reduced glutathione (GSH) in red cells, comparable to the changes in levels of erythrocytic GSH known to occur during primaquine-induced haemolysis, occurred just before and early during the acute haemolytic episode that resulted from administration of diaphenylsulfone to G-6-PD-deficient subjects; in contrast, levels of erythrocytic GSH increased early during the course of diaphenylsulfone-induced haemolysis in normal men.<<<<
Hydroxyurea: differential lethal effects on cultured mammalian cells during the cell cycle.<<<<Hydroxyurea has a differential lethal effect on cultured Chinesehamster cells that are at different stages in their cell cycle. Cells synthesizing DNA at the time of exposure to the drug are lethally damaged. Cells in the phase of growth preceding DNA synthesis (G(1)) survive but are prevented from beginning DNA synthesis. Cells in the phase after DNA synthesis (G(2)) survive and appear to progress until just before the beginning of the next period of DNA synthesis. This differential lethal and inhibitory effect of hydroxyurea may be useful for synchronizing asynchronous cell populations and explaining effects of the drug in human therapy.<<<<
Agranulocytosis: a report of 30 cases.<<<<Thirty cases of acute agranulocytosis, as defined by Schultz, were observed between 1946 and 1964 at the Hôtel-Dieu Hospital, Montreal. In 14 cases agents incriminated were: aminopyrine, phenylbutazone, sulfonamides and chlorpromazine. Aminopyrine alone was responsible for eight cases. In the remaining 16 cases no definite etiology was established. Clinical manifestations included fever, prostration, angina and multiple pharyngeal ulcerations; these were associated with severe leukopenia and agranulocytosis. The bone marrow showed hypoplasia, lymphocytosis and maturation arrest. Localized and pulmonary infections, pseudomembranous enterocolitis and septicemia were frequent complications in 21 cases and were usually responsible for death, which occurred in 12 cases. Almost all patients who developed septicemia or pseudomembranous enterocolitis died. The pathogenesis is still not clear, but chlorpromazine and its analogues may act as a metabolic inhibitor, while the aminopyrine group probably operates through an immune mechanism.<<<<
Idiopathic hypoparathyroidsm: provocation of a tetanic seizure by the injection of a mercurial diuretic.<<<<Idiopathic hypoparathyroidism was diagnosed in a 55-year-old patient following rather unusual circumstances: he informed the emergency ward physician attending him for congestive cardiac insufficiency consequent to coronary cardiopathy that on the two preceding occasions when such insufficiency had been relieved by the injection of a diuretic, a tetanic seizure had ensued which was corrected by intravenous administration of calcium. Treatment of the cardiac insufficiency was nonetheless instituted with the mercurial diuretic: tetany appeared a few hours later, subsiding after intravenous injection of calcium. The various possible ways in which a tetanic seizure may be triggered by a mercurial diuretic are discussed.<<<<
Clinically important examples of drug interaction. Psychotropic drugs (1). Interaction between centrally acting drugs in man: some general considerations.<<<<As a biological phenomenon the interaction between drugs may be viewed in ;explanatory' or ;empirical' terms. In clinical psychopharmacology the former is rarely possible: two examples are cited, one concerning amphetamine and reserpine, the other desmethyl-imipramine and tetrabenazine. Among centrally acting substances, empirical studies of the interaction between alcohol and the barbiturates have been pursued intensively by several methods in clinic and laboratory. Both general considerations and recent work on the effects of amphetamine-barbiturate combinations suggest caution in the medical use of mixtures of psychotropic drugs. Adverse reactions caused by interaction between psychotropic drugs and other substances have still to be studied systematically as a potential hazard.<<<<
Psychotropic drugs (2). Interaction between monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors and other substances.<<<<Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) in clinical use have an irreversible action on MAO, and this persists until the enzyme has been resynthesized. The effects of small daily doses of MAOI are therefore cumulative. The biochemical effects of these drugs will involve several substrates of MAO, e.g. dopamine, tyramine, serotonin and, to a lesser extent, noradrenaline and adrenaline.MAO probably regulates the metabolism of catecholamines and serotonin in tissues, while catechol-O-methyltransferase is responsible for the metabolism of circulating noradrenaline and adrenaline.Certain pharmacological effects of MAOI are related to the accumulation of monoamines in various tissues that follows the decrease of intraneuronal deamination. Among these effects are reversal of the reserpine syndrome in animals and augmentation of the pharmacological action of monoamines. Other effects are unrelated to the inhibition of MAO, e.g. immediate desynchronization of EEG and initial pressor effects.MAOI may potentiate or change the action of several other drugs and even certain foods. The mechanisms involved are usually reasonably predictable from animal experiments. Substrates of MAO, e.g. dopamine and tyramine, evoke augmented and prolonged effects in patients treated with MAOI. This is partly due to an impaired metabolism of the circulating amines. In addition, inhibition of intestinal and hepatic MAO largely increases the absorption of tryamine from cheeses and other foods. Usually innocuous amounts of tyramine may therefore cause hypertensive reactions in patients treated with MAOI. Indirectly acting sympathomimetic amines, such as amphetamines, ephedrine and MAOI with amphetamine-like properties, can be potentiated, because they may release increased amounts of nor-adrenaline from sympathetic nerve endings after MAO inhibition. The effects of any amine, whether a substrate of MAO or not, may be enhanced by MAO inhibitors producing postganglionic block. This is due to ;denervation' supersensitivity of adrenergic receptors.Harmful pharmacological interaction is also possible between MAO inhibitors and agents which release (reserpine) or replete (amine precursors, e.g. L-DOPA in broad beans) monoamines centrally and peripherally. Drugs that sensitize adrenergic and tryptaminergic receptors to the action of monoamines, e.g. imipramine-like compounds, may be greatly potentiated by MAO inhibitors. The anti-hypertensive effects of thiazides and ganglion-blocking agents may be enhanced by MAOI. A few drugs are known to exert prolonged effects in occasional patients treated with MAOI, e.g. pethidine, phenothiazines and pentobarbital. MAOI may possibly decelerate the metabolism of these compounds by a nonspecific inhibition of liver microsomal enzymes. Finally, a great number of agents have been found empirically to evoke augmented effects after inhibition of MAO, e.g. insulin and anti-Parkinson drugs.<<<<
Clinical effects of interaction between drugs. Review of points at which drugs can interact.<<<<The prescribing of mixtures is unfortunately traditional and has a psychological appeal, which is being encouraged by many manufacturers. Doctors must have a sound working knowledge of the mode of action of modern drugs in order to use them effectively and safely, particularly when they are used together.In this context ;drug' means any biologically active substance. Interaction between drugs can be inapparent (if equal and opposite), antagonistic or synergistic. This includes summation and potentiation.INTERACTION BETWEEN DRUGS CAN ARISE IN A VARIETY OF WAYS: directly; in the intestine or other absorptive site; in transit; at the receptor or at another site in the same biological system; by accelerating or slowing drug metabolism; or by influencing excretion.Most of these mechanisms are considered in detail in this Symposium. With greater understanding of underlying mechanisms many of the untoward interactions now being increasingly reported might be foreseen and avoided.<<<<
Physiological and pharmacological interactions of antihypertensive drugs.<<<<The complex mechanisms that maintain the blood pressure can be interfered with at many points by drugs. A drug acting at one point may be potentiated by another which blocks a compensatory reflex minimizing the effect of the first. Many therapeutically useful drug combinations have a nonspecific mechanism of this kind although drugs that act upon different points in the sympathetic efferent vasomotor pathway have not been proved to have a useful additive effect.It is not easy to prove a synergistic action of two drugs unless it is large. The best supported examples are combinations of either a diuretic or a vasodilator with a sympathetic blocking drug. These combinations are the ones most widely used in treatment of hypertension. They allow the dose of each active substance to be reduced so that unwanted side-effects are decreased without losing the desired action on the blood pressure.Drug combinations have special risks besides their obvious advantages. Patients are more likely to become confused and take the wrong doses if their treatment regime is complicated. Two drugs which are individually nontoxic may have dangers when used together. Oliguria and a mounting blood urea may follow combined use of powerful modern diuretics. Toxic effects may be entirely unrelated to the main therapeutic action of the drug, as with the enhanced diabetogenic effect of diazoxide used with hydrochlorothiazide.Several potent cardiovascular drugs modify the response to drugs which might be given to raise the blood pressure in an emergency. No drug in common therapeutic use seriously reduces the response to injected noradrenaline but some, such as sympathetic blockers and monoamine oxidase inhibitors, greatly increase sensitivity. Pressor amines that act indirectly by noradrenaline release may be ineffective in the presence of drugs which deplete or insulate the stores of the transmitter in adrenergic nerve endings.The advantages and disadvantages of drug interactions deserve more thought and study than they usually receive.<<<<
Effects of a combination of atropine, metaraminol and pyridine aldoxime methanesulfonate (AMP therapy) on normal human subjects.<<<<Four hundred and seventeen medical students at the University of Toronto were used as both subjects and observers in a series of double-blind experiments to determine possible toxic effects following oral ingestion of various combinations of 2 mg. atropine, 10 mg. metaraminol and 1 g. pyridine aldoxime methanesulfonate (P(2)S). Heart rate, blood pressure, pupil diameter, and visual accommodation were measured before and at 20-minute intervals after drug administration for 100 minutes. A visual and memory perceptual test (Mackworth) was performed before and 100 minutes after drug ingestion.No toxic effects were observed following administration of the triple combination of atropine, metaraminol and P(2)S (AMP therapy). The AMP combination might be useful prophylactically for persons facing exposure to organophosphorus anticholinesterase compounds. It must not be considered an adequate substitute for treatment should poisoning occur.<<<<
Adverse reactions to antimicrobial therapy.<<<<Adverse reactions to antimicrobial agents consist of toxic effects mediated through chemical changes in tissue cells, sensitivity reactions produced by antigen-antibody reactions, and biological effects caused by alteration of the bacterial flora in the body. Patients vary in their susceptibility to these because of genetically determined differences in enzyme and protein make-up, differences in immunologic reactivity, differences in environment, or because of the effects of disease. Some antibiotics are capable of producing almost invariable damage to certain tissues if given long enough in sufficient dosage, whereas others produce disturbances in only occasional patients. Almost any organ in the body may be involved, indicating that the metabolic processes affected by these agents are represented to a varying degree in the cells of the host. Little is known of the specific mechanisms involved, but as information is acquired, it should be possible to reduce the incidence of reactions.<<<<
Lincomycin in hospital practice.<<<<The usefulness of the new antibiotic, lincomycin, was assessed on both bacteriological and clinical grounds. Of 3200 strains of staphylococci isolated from clinical material, only 40 were resistant to lincomycin. These 40 were all of the same phage type and in fact almost all represented different isolations of the same staphylococcus which had spread to cross-infect various patients. Sixteen of 22 patients with staphylococcal infections, nine of 14 with pneumonia, 15 of 17 with acute exacerbations of bronchitis and two patients with other bacterial infections recovered completely with lincomycin therapy. The only side effect was diarrhea in four of the 42 patients given the drug by mouth. The place of lincomycin in therapeutics seems to be principally in the treatment of chronic osteomyelitis and, in patients allergic to the penicillins, in the treatment of staphylococcal, respiratory and other infections for which penicillin is usually employed.<<<<
Penicillin sensitivity.<<<<The results obtained in this study indicate that there are various patterns of hypersensitivity to penicillin. In order to detect these variations it is suggested that two antigens, penicillin and penicilloyl-polylysine, be employed to test for both serum and skin sensitivity. Absolutely accurate predictions cannot be made from these tests, but it is felt that their use will minimize untoward reactions of the anaphylactic type in patients thus screened for penicillin allergy.<<<<
Zirconium granuloma following treatment of rhus dermatitis.<<<<Zirconium granuloma of the skin, initially seen following the use of zirconium deodorants, continues to occur secondary to the treatment of plant dermatitis with compounds containing zirconium. In our patient the reaction appeared eight weeks after initial use of the agent and has persisted for 18 months without therapy. Intradermal injection of minute amounts of a soluble zirconium compound resulted in production of a lesion that was identical clinically and histologically with the primary lesion at the end of four weeks. Although this disorder involves the skin primarily, the slight elevation in gamma-globulin level observed may be a reflection of its systemic pathogenesis.<<<<
Avascular bone necrosis. A complication of long-term corticosteroid therapy.<<<<A patient with pemphigus vulgaris, treated with long term corticosteroids, developed avascular necrosis of the head of the femur and humerus, bilaterally. This patient emphasizes the fact that the use of corticosteroids in dermatologic disorders may be a predisposing cause in avascular necrosis, and that this is another side effect of long-term corticosteroid therapy. This patient is particularly remarkable in that both hips and both shoulders were involved.<<<<
Necrosis in leg ulcers. Probable role of fluocinolone acetonide.<<<<Necrosis in chronic leg ulcers developed in all of the four patients who were treated topically with a fluocinolone acetonide-neomycin sulfate ointment. This was probably due to the vasoconstrictive properties of the steroid. A warning against the topical use of potent steroids in skin diseases with impaired circulation seems to be justified.<<<<
Illicit drugs: What dermatologists need to know.<<<<We review the most common systemic and cutaneous signs of heroin, cocaine, methamphetamine, Ecstasy, and marijuana use. We also provide an overview of the skin and soft-tissue infections frequently found in intravenous drug users and the effects of the adulterants added to the drugs.<<<<
The incidence, risk factors, and prognosis of recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients with advanced solid cancers receiving anticoagulation therapy after the diagnosis of index VTE.<<<<Patients with cancer have been associated with increased risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE). However, data on recurrent VTE in Asian patients with advanced solid cancers are limited. This study was conducted using data from the Korean VTE registry, which is an ongoing, prospective database. Patients were eligible if they had diagnosed with recurrent/metastatic solid cancers and initiated anticoagulation therapy following index VTE diagnosis. A total of 449 patients were included in this analysis. The 6-month and 12-month cumulative incidences of recurrent VTE were 20.6% and 27.0%, respectively. Isolated pulmonary embolism (PE) (51%) was the most predominant recurrence type. Pancreas as the primary tumor site, poor Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status at the time of index VTE diagnosis, and initial presentation with PE were independent risk factors for developing recurrent VTE. With a median follow-up of 29.1months (range, 1.0-91.2), the median overall survival (OS) was 11.9months. Patients with recurrent VTE had a significantly worse OS than those without recurrent VTE (median, 8.4 vs. 13.0months, respectively; P=0.001). In conclusion, the incidence of recurrent VTE in Korean patients with advanced solid cancers is comparable with Caucasian patients. Pancreas as the primary tumor site, poor performance status, and initial presentation with PE are independent recurrent VTE risk factors in advanced cancer VTE patients. Additionally, OS is adversely affected by recurrent VTE.<<<<
Managing the risk of lithium-induced nephropathy in the long-term treatment of patients with recurrent affective disorders.<<<<Lithium has been the most effective psychopharmacological drug in the long-term treatment of patients with recurrent unipolar and bipolar affective illness. As a result of its widespread and longtime use in patients with recurrent affective disorders, psychiatrists have become increasingly aware of the whole spectrum of lithium's potential side effects. One of the side effects associated with its chronic use is lithium-induced nephropathy. In a recent cross-sectional study published in BMC Medicine, Alberto Bocchetta et al. add further information to this topic, demonstrating that duration of lithium treatment is associated with impaired glomerular function in patients with recurrent or chronic affective disorders. The present paper will discuss the implications of this and other related recent research on our management of patients with recurrent affective disorders. In this context the importance of shared decision making and close monitoring of kidney function is highlighted, including the regular assessment of the glomerular filtration rate, to provide best possible care to our patients maintained on lithium treatment.See related research article here http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/33.<<<<
Duration of lithium treatment is a risk factor for reduced glomerular function: a cross-sectional study.<<<<The adverse renal effects of lithium have long been known, but glomerular insufficiency had been considered an unlikely event until recently, when new studies have raised concern regarding very long-term treatment. In this cross-sectional study, we examined glomerular function in a cohort of patients treated with lithium for up to 33 years and a control group of lithium-naïve patients treated with other mood-stabilizers. Patients with a diagnosis of recurrent or persistent affective disorders, examined between 1 October 2007 and 31 December 2009, were screened. Demographic and clinical data were extracted from clinical charts regarding two study groups: one for patients treated with lithium for at least 12 months and the other for patients never exposed to lithium. Multivariate regression analysis was applied: the dependent variable was the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) calculated from the last available serum creatinine value using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study Group equation; the following independent variables, potentially associated with renal dysfunction, were included: gender, current age, duration of lithium treatment, cigarette smoking, hypertension, diabetes and dyslipidemia. eGFRs lower than 60 ml/min were significantly more frequent in the group treated with lithium (38/139 = 27.3%) compared to lithium-naïve patients (4/70 = 5.7%) (P = 0.0002; Fisher's test). Regression analysis showed a significant effect on eGFR of age, gender and duration of lithium treatment but no effect of cigarette smoking, hypertension, diabetes or dyslipidemia. eGFR was estimated to decrease by 0.64 ml/min (95% confidence interval = 0.38 to 0.90; P = 0.00) for each year of lithium treatment. The duration of lithium treatment is a risk factor for glomerular failure, in addition to advancing age. For example, all patients aged 60 years or older may be estimated to undergo Stage 3 or more severe chronic kidney disease (namely an eGFR less than 60 ml/min) if treated with lithium for 30 years. These data may be added to the current debate on the balance between the protective effects of lithium on recurrent affective disorders and suicide and the risk of renal disease.See related commentary article here http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/34.<<<<
Life-threatening hypocalcemia associated with denosumab in a patient with moderate renal insufficiency.<<<<Denosumab, a human monoclonal antibody to the receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand, is a novel therapy to osteoporotic fracture and skeletal-related events in patients with bone metastases. Hypocalcemia is its known adverse effect, although it is generally mild and transient and usually occurs in patients with severe chronic kidney disease or end-stage renal disease. We reported a case 61-year-old woman who received a single dose of denosumab and developed severe symptomatic hypocalcemia associated with prolong QTc interval requiring hospitalization for intravenous calcium.<<<<
Endocrine-related effects of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) in zebrafish, H295R steroidogenesis and receptor reporter gene assays.<<<<Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a persistent perfluorinated compound, is distributed widely in wildlife and humans. Recent studies showed that PFOA is a suspected endocrine disruptor. But the results are somewhat contradictory and the mechanisms are unclear. In this study, we investigated the endocrine-related effects of PFOA using a series of assays. The lower dose effect of PFOA on development and endocrine-related gene expression were assessed in a short-term zebrafish assay in vivo. To clarify the mechanism of PFOA, in vitro assays were performed. We tested the hormone receptor activities of ER, AR, and TR against PFOA using reporter gene assays. The hormone levels of estradiol (E2) and testosterone (T), the expression of major steroidogenic genes and the key steroidogenic gene regulator steroidogenic factors 1 (SF-1) were measured after PFOA exposure in H295R steroidogenesis assay. Exposure of zebrafish embryo to PFOA resulted in higher expression of esr1, hhex and pax. PFOA is able to interfere with hormone receptor ER and TR. In H295R cells, PFOA could increase the E2 production and decrease the T production, altered the expression of major steroidogenic genes and regulator SF-1. The current findings indicated the potential endocrine-related effects of PFOA and provided novel information for human risk assessment.<<<<
Preparation and characterization of glycol chitin as a new thermogelling polymer for biomedical applications.<<<<In this study, a new thermo-sensitive polymer, glycol chitin, was synthesized by controlled N-acetylation of glycol chitosan and evaluated as a thermogelling system. The physico-chemical properties of glycol chitins with different degrees of acetylation (DA) were investigated in terms of degradation, cytotoxicity, rheological properties, and in vitro and in vivo gel formation. Aqueous solutions of glycol chitins were flowable freely at room temperature but quickly became a durable gel at body temperature. Thermo-reversible sol-gel transition properties were observed with fast gelation kinetics. Glycol chitins with higher DA showed faster degradation in the presence of lysozyme. They exhibited no significant biological toxicity against human cell lines. An anti-cancer drug, doxorubicin, could be incorporated into the hydrogel by a simple mixing process and released in a sustained pattern over 13 days. Our findings suggest that glycol chitins could be useful as a new thermogelling biomaterial for drug delivery and injectable tissue engineering.<<<<
Preparation of low toxic fluorescent chitosan-graft-polyethyleneimine copolymer for gene carrier.<<<<Fluorescent chitosan-graft-polyethyleneimine (PEI) copolymer was prepared by incorporating PEI molecule onto chitosan backbone through naphthalimide moiety by simple substitution reaction. 4-Bromo-1,8-naphthalic anhydride was used as fluorescent probe due to its strong fluorescence and good photo-stability property and the presence of a fine tunable bromide functional group in the naphthalimide ring, in this work. The copolymer was characterized by FTIR, elemental analysis and XRD. The fluorescence property of the copolymer was determined by UV-vis spectrometer and spectrofluorometer. The effects of pH and temperature on fluorescence property of the copolymer were also studied. The graft copolymer with degree of substitution 37.6 of PEI onto chitosan showed better complexation ability with DNA at comparatively low N/P (nitrogen to phosphate ratio) ratio 1.0 compared to that of chitosan (N/P ratio 2.0). The cytotoxicity of PEI largely decreased after grafting with chitosan and all the copolymers showed above 50% cell viability even at high polymer concentration (300 μg/mL). Therefore, the prepared fluorescent chitosan-graft-PEI copolymer may be used as a biological marker as well as drug or gene carrier with low toxicity.<<<<
Cytotoxicity and antibacterial ability of scaffolds immobilized by polysaccharide/layered silicate composites.<<<<Chitosan and pectin/organic rectorite (OREC) were initially deposited on the surface of cellulose acetate electrospun nanofibers by a layer-by-layer (LBL) technique to fabricate scaffolds for bacterial inhibition, and the cytotoxicity of the LBL structured scaffolds was also investigated. A couple of opposite charged material, pectin and OREC, were firstly used to fabricate the intercalated composites. The intercalated structure was determined by selected area electron diffraction. Field-emission scanning electron microscope, X-ray diffraction and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy were applied for the characterization of LBL structured nanofibrous scaffolds. Antibacterial assay results showed that the diameters of the inhibition zone increased from 7.6 to 15.8 mm for Escherichia coli, as well as from 7.4 to 14.2 mm for Staphylococcus aureus. Finally, human epidermal (EP) cells grew well on the LBL films coating. These novel scaffolds could be an ideal candidate for wound dressings and food packaging.<<<<
Intra-articular injection of xanthan gum reduces pain and cartilage damage in a rat osteoarthritis model.<<<<The objective of this study was to evaluate the alleviative effect of intra-articular (IA) injection of xanthan gum (XG) on pain and cartilage degradation in a model of monosodium iodoacetate (MIA)-induced knee osteoarthritis (OA). The rheological study and hyaluronidase (HAse) degradation analysis of XG injection were presented. The effect of pain relief was determined by measurements of paw withdrawal threshold and weight bearing by hind limbs. The protective effect on the cartilage was evaluated by gross morphological observation and histological evaluation of knee joints. The effect was investigated in two protocols: a therapeutic treatment protocol, and a prophylactic treatment protocol. Our results showed that HAse had no effect on the rheological properties of XG injection. Local XG administration in both protocols could reduce OA pain and alleviate the joint cartilage degradation induced by MIA. IA injection of XG might be an effective method for OA treatment in human.<<<<
Cellulose/CaCO3 nanocomposites: microwave ionic liquid synthesis, characterization, and biological activity.<<<<The purposes of this article are to synthesize the biomass-based hybrid nanocomposites using green method in green solvent and evaluate its biological activity. In this paper, microwave-assisted ionic liquid method is applied to the preparation of cellulose/CaCO(3) hybrid nanocomposites in the alkali extraction cellulose using CaCl(2) and Na(2)CO(3) as starting reactants. The ionic liquid acts as the excellent solvent for absorbing microwave and the dissolution of cellulose, and the synthesis of cellulose/CaCO(3) nanocomposites. The influences of reaction parameters such as the cellulose concentration and the types of solvent on the products were investigated. The increasing cellulose concentration favored the growth of CaCO(3). The morphologies of CaCO(3) changed from polyhedral to cube to particle with increasing cellulose concentration. Moreover, the solvents had an effect on the shape and dispersion of CaCO(3). Cytotoxicity experiments demonstrated that the cellulose/CaCO(3) nanocomposites had good biocompatibility and could be a candidate for the biomedical applications.<<<<
Testosterone administration inhibits hepcidin transcription and is associated with increased iron incorporation into red blood cells.<<<<Testosterone administration increases hemoglobin levels and has been used to treat anemia of chronic disease. Erythrocytosis is the most frequent adverse event associated with testosterone therapy of hypogonadal men, especially older men. However, the mechanisms by which testosterone increases hemoglobin remain unknown. Testosterone administration in male and female mice was associated with a greater increase in hemoglobin and hematocrit, reticulocyte count, reticulocyte hemoglobin concentration, and serum iron and transferrin saturation than placebo. Testosterone downregulated hepatic hepcidin mRNA expression, upregulated renal erythropoietin mRNA expression, and increased erythropoietin levels. Testosterone-induced suppression of hepcidin expression was independent of its effects on erythropoietin or hypoxia-sensing mechanisms. Transgenic mice with liver-specific constitutive hepcidin over-expression failed to exhibit the expected increase in hemoglobin in response to testosterone administration. Testosterone upregulated splenic ferroportin expression and reduced iron retention in spleen. After intravenous administration of transferrin-bound (58) Fe, the amount of (58) Fe incorporated into red blood cells was significantly greater in testosterone-treated mice than in placebo-treated mice. Serum from testosterone-treated mice stimulated hemoglobin synthesis in K562 erythroleukemia cells more than that from vehicle-treated mice. Testosterone administration promoted the association of androgen receptor (AR) with Smad1 and Smad4 to reduce their binding to bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-response elements in hepcidin promoter in the liver. Ectopic expression of AR in hepatocytes suppressed hepcidin transcription; this effect was blocked dose-dependently by AR antagonist flutamide. Testosterone did not affect hepcidin mRNA stability. In conclusion, testosterone inhibits hepcidin transcription through its interaction with BMP/Smad signaling. Testosterone administration is associated with increased iron incorporation into red blood cells.<<<<
Decreased mortality associated with statin treatment in patients with acute myocardial infarction and lymphotoxin-alpha C804A polymorphism.<<<<We previously reported the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the lymphotoxin alpha (LTα) gene with susceptibility to acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and increased mortality after discharge. In the present study, we investigated whether the adverse effect of LTα C804A polymorphism on mortality could be pharmacologically modified by statin treatment after AMI. We conducted a multicenter study that included 3486 post-AMI patients between 1998 and 2008. During a median follow-up period of 1775 days, 247 deaths were recorded. The mortality rate was significantly higher in LTα 804A allele carriers compared to non-804A allele carriers (7.9% vs. 5.7%, p = 0.011). The LTα 804A allele was significantly associated with increased mortality for post-AMI patients not receiving statins (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.48, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.03-2.12, p = 0.034), but not for those receiving statins (HR: 1.22, 95% CI: 0.70-2.10, p = 0.486). In-vitro experimental analyses demonstrated that the LTα 804A polymorphic protein, 26Asn-LTα3, induced monocyte-endothelial interaction and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in cardiomyocytes more strongly than the LTα3 804C polymorphic protein 26Thr-LTα3. However, the effects of both LTα3 proteins were decreased and became comparable by the pretreatment of cells with pravastatin. LTα C804A polymorphism was associated with an increased risk of mortality for AMI patients, although this effect was masked in patients treated with statins. This finding is supported by the observed attenuation of 26Asn-LTα3-mediated monocyte-endothelial interaction and ER stress in cardiomyocytes treated with pravastatin. LTα C804A polymorphism may have potential as a novel therapeutic target for secondary prevention after AMI.<<<<
Opioid withdrawal increases transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 activity in a protein kinase A-dependent manner.<<<<Hyperalgesia is a cardinal symptom of opioid withdrawal. The transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is a ligand-gated ion channel expressed on sensory neurons responding to noxious heat, protons, and chemical stimuli such as capsaicin. TRPV1 can be inhibited via μ-opioid receptor (MOR)-mediated reduced activity of adenylyl cyclases (ACs) and decreased cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels. In contrast, opioid withdrawal following chronic activation of MOR uncovers AC superactivation and subsequent increases in cAMP and protein kinase A (PKA) activity. Here we investigated (1) whether an increase in cAMP during opioid withdrawal increases the activity of TRPV1 and (2) how opioid withdrawal modulates capsaicin-induced nocifensive behavior in rats. We applied whole-cell patch clamp, microfluorimetry, cAMP assays, radioligand binding, site-directed mutagenesis, and behavioral experiments. Opioid withdrawal significantly increased cAMP levels and capsaicin-induced TRPV1 activity in both transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells and dissociated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Inhibition of AC and PKA, as well as mutations of the PKA phosphorylation sites threonine 144 and serine 774, prevented the enhanced TRPV1 activity. Finally, capsaicin-induced nocifensive behavior was increased during opioid withdrawal in vivo. In summary, our results demonstrate an increased activity of TRPV1 in DRG neurons as a new mechanism contributing to opioid withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia.<<<<
Value of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale in the follow up of head and neck cancer patients.<<<<Few studies have prospectively investigated psychological morbidity in UK head and neck cancer patients. This study aimed to explore changes in psychological symptoms over time, and associations with patients' tumour and treatment characteristics, including toxicity. Two hundred and twenty patients were recruited to complete the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and the Late Effects on Normal Tissue (Subjective, Objective, Management and Analytic) ('LENT-SOMA') questionnaires, both pre- and post-treatment. Anxiety was highest pre-treatment (38 per cent) and depressive symptoms peaked at the end of treatment (44 per cent). Anxiety significantly decreased and depression significantly increased, comparing pre- versus post-treatment responses (p < 0.001). Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale scores were significantly correlated with toxicity, age and chemotherapy (p < 0.01 for all). This is the first study to analyse the relationship between Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale scores and toxicity scores in head and neck cancer patients. It lends support for the use of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and the Late Effects on Normal Tissue (Subjective, Objective, Management and Analytic) questionnaire in routine clinical practice; furthermore, continued surveillance is required at multiple measurement points.<<<<
A new antiarrhythmic drug in the treatment of recent-onset atrial fibrillation: vernakalant.<<<<Vernakalant is a new antiarrhythmic agent recently approved in Europe for the rapid cardioversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation. It works by blocking early-activating K+ atrial channels and frequency-dependent atrial Na+ channels, prolonging atrial refractory periods and rate-dependent slowing atrial conduction, without promoting ventricular arrhythmia. Preclinical and clinical trials showed good toleration of this drug. The main purpose of our review is to describe all the trials that led to the incorporation of vernakalant into the current European atrial fibrillation guidelines.<<<<Atrial fibrillation;Cardioversion;Vernakalant
Enhancing the pharmacokinetic properties of recombinant factor VIII: first-in-human trial of glycoPEGylated recombinant factor VIII in patients with hemophilia A.<<<<N8-GP is a recombinant factor VIII (FVIII) with a site-directed glycoPEGylation for the purpose of half-life prolongation. To evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetic profiles of N8-GP in comparison with those of the patients' previous FVIII products. This dose-escalation trial included previously treated patients with severe hemophilia A who received one of three dose levels (25, 50 or 75 U kg(-1) ) of N8-GP and FVIII product. Each dose escalation was preceded by safety and pharmacokinetic assessment. The trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01205724). Twenty-six patients each received one dose of their previous FVIII product followed by the same, single dose of N8-GP. N8-GP, at any tested dose, was well tolerated, with a low frequency of adverse events. No new inhibitors against FVIII or N8-GP and no binding antibodies against N8-GP developed during the trial. The pharmacokinetics of N8-GP were dose-linear. The incremental recovery of N8-GP was 0.025 [(U mL(-1) )/(U kg(-1) )]. The clearance was 1.79 mL(-1)  h(-1)  kg(-1) . The estimated time from dosing of 50 U kg(-1) N8-GP to a plasma activity of 1% was 6.5 days (range: 3.6-7.9 days). The mean terminal half-life of N8-GP was 19.0 h (range: 11.6-27.3 h), 1.6-fold longer than that of the patients' previous products. A single dose of up to 75 U kg(-1) N8-GP was well tolerated in patients with hemophilia A, with no safety concerns. N8-GP had a prolonged half-life, and FVIII:C activity remained at > 1% for longer than the patient's previous product. These results indicate that N8-GP has the potential to reduce dosing frequency during prophylaxis.<<<<
'The pump was a saviour for me.' Patients' experiences of insulin pump therapy.<<<<The present study formed part of a larger study examining the potential long-term effects of glycaemic control and treatment satisfaction in people with Type 1 diabetes mellitus who changed from multiple daily insulin injections to insulin pump therapy. Individuals (n = 46) who made the transition between May 1999 and February 2004 participated. The aim of the study was to describe experiences of the impact of insulin pump therapy in adults with Type 1 diabetes mellitus after > 5 years' use of an insulin pump. During spring 2009, 16 of the individuals were interviewed through a narrative approach on the effects of insulin pump therapy on daily life. The interviews were analysed using content analysis. The overarching theme revealed that insulin pump therapy was experienced as both a shackle and a lifeline. Six sub-themes emerged: subjected vs. empowered; dependent vs. autonomous; vulnerable vs. strengthened; routinized vs. flexible; burdened vs. relieved; and stigmatized vs. normalized. Users of insulin pump therapy have different views about and experience of having used the technical equipment over years. Both positive and negative views emerged. However, it is difficult to identify any general trends that cover all views and can predict which individuals will be able to manage pump therapy in the best way. Even so, the sub-themes and theme that emerged could be used by physicians and diabetes specialist nurses when counselling and planning educational programmes aimed at supporting self-management among people with insulin pump treatment.<<<<
A Phase IIb, randomized, placebo-controlled study of the SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes.<<<<This Phase IIb, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluated the efficacy, safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes. Four hundred and eight patients (treatment-naïve or after a 4-week wash-out period) were randomized to receive empagliflozin 5, 10 or 25 mg once daily, placebo or open-label metformin for 12 weeks. The primary endpoint was change in haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) after 12 weeks. After 12 weeks' treatment, empagliflozin showed dose-dependent reductions in HbA1c from baseline [5 mg: -0.4%, 10 mg: -0.5%, 25 mg: -0.6%; all doses p < 0.0001 vs. placebo (+0.09%)]. Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) decreased with empagliflozin [5 mg: -1.29 mmol/l, 10 mg: -1.61 mmol/l, 25 mg: -1.72 mmol/l; all doses p < 0.0001 vs. placebo (+0.04 mmol/l)]. Body weight decreased in all empagliflozin groups (all doses p < 0.001 vs. placebo). The incidence of adverse events (AEs) was similar in the placebo (32.9%) and empagliflozin (29.1%) groups. The most frequently reported AEs on empagliflozin were pollakiuria (3.3% vs. 0% for placebo), thirst (3.3% vs. 0% for placebo) and nasopharyngitis (2.0% vs. 1.2% for placebo). AEs consistent with urinary tract infections (UTIs) were reported in four (1.6%) patients on empagliflozin vs. one (1.2%) on placebo. Genital infections were reported in five (2%) patients on empagliflozin vs. 0% on placebo. No UTIs or genital infections led to premature discontinuation. In patients with type 2 diabetes, empagliflozin resulted in dose-dependent, clinically meaningful reductions in HbA1c and FPG, and reductions in body weight compared with placebo. Empagliflozin was well-tolerated with a favourable safety profile.<<<<BI 10773;FPG;HbA1c;SGLT2 inhibitor;body weight;empagliflozin;tolerability
Modified dipeptide-based nanoparticles: vehicles for targeted tumor drug delivery.<<<<Different nanoparticles have been investigated to deliver chemotherapeutic agents, but complex synthesis procedures and biocompatibility issues raise concerns in developing them for safe human usage. The aim of this work is to develop α,β-dehydrophenylalanine-containing, self-assembled, amphipathic dipeptide nanoparticles for tumor-targeted drug delivery and therapy. Solution-phase peptide synthesis was used to synthesize dipeptides. Nanoparticles were prepared by molecular self-assembly. A tumor distribution study was carried out using a radiolabeling method. Tumor regression studies were carried out in murine ascitic tumors in BALB/c mice and breast tumor xenografts in in nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency mice. Arg-α,β-dehydrophenylalanine formed self-assembled nanoparticles that could be easily derivatized with folic acid. Folic acid-derivatized nanoparticles showed enhanced cellular uptake and, when loaded with doxorubicin, showed enhanced tumor regression compared with underivatized nanoparticles or native drug, without any adverse side effects, both in vitro and in vivo.<<<<
Effect of online diabetes training for hospitalists on inpatient glycaemia.<<<<An online diabetes course for medical residents led to lower patient blood glucose, but also increased hypoglycaemia despite improved trainee confidence and knowledge. Based on these findings, we determined whether an optimized educational intervention delivered to hospitalists (corresponding to an Acute Physician or Specialist in Acute Hospital Medicine in the UK) improved inpatient glycaemia without concomitant hypoglycaemia. All 22 hospitalists at an academic medical centre were asked to participate in an online curriculum on the management of inpatient dysglycaemia in autumn 2009 and a refresher course in spring 2010. All hospitalists completed the initial intervention. Median event blood glucose decreased from 9.3 mmol/l (168 mg/dl) pre-intervention to 7.8 mmol/l (141 mg/dl) post-intervention and 8.5 mmol/l (153 mg/dl) post-refresher (P < 0.001 for both). Hospitalizations categorized as hyperglycaemia decreased from 83.3 to 55.6% (P = 0.014), with a trend towards euglycaemia (10-28.9%, P = 0.08) and no change in hypoglycaemia. Hyperglycaemic patient-days decreased from 72.0 to 57.3% (P = 0.004), with greater target glycaemia (27.3-39.4%, P = 0.016) and no change in hypoglycaemia. An optimized online educational intervention delivered to hospitalists yielded significant improvements in inpatient glycaemia without increased hypoglycaemia.<<<<
Anthracyclines during induction therapy in acute myeloid leukaemia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.<<<<This systematic review and meta-analysis compared the efficacy of different anthracyclines and anthracycline dosing schedules for induction therapy in acute myeloid leukaemia in children and adults younger than 60 years of age. Twenty-nine randomized controlled trials were eligible for inclusion in the review. Idarubicin (IDA), in comparison to daunorubicin (DNR), reduced remission failure rates (risk ratio (RR) 0·81; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0·66-0·99; P = 0·04), but did not alter rates of early death or overall mortality. Superiority of IDA for remission induction was limited to studies with a DNR/IDA dose ratio <5 (ratio <5: RR 0·65; 95% CI, 0·51-0·81; P < 0·001; ratio ≥5: RR 1·03; 95% CI, 0·91-1·16; P = 0·63). Higher-dose DNR, compared to lower-dose DNR, was associated with reduced rates for remission failure (RR 0·75; 95% CI, 0·60-0·94; P = 0·003) and overall mortality (RR 0·83; 95% CI, 0·75-0·93; P < 0·001), but not for early death. Comparisons of several other anthracycline derivates did not reveal significant differences in outcomes. Survival estimates in adults suggest that both high-dose DNR (90 mg/m(2) daily × 3 or 50 mg/m(2) daily × 5) and IDA (12 mg/m(2) daily × 3) can achieve 5-year survival rates of between 40 and 50 percent.<<<<
Adverse effects of high-intensity sweeteners on energy intake and weight control in male and obesity-prone female rats.<<<<The use of high-intensity sweeteners has been proposed as a method to combat increasing rates of overweight and obesity in the human population. However, previous work with male rats suggests that consumption of such sweeteners might contribute to, rather than ameliorate, weight gain. The goals of the present experiments were to assess whether intake of high-intensity sweeteners is associated with increased food intake and body weight gain in female rats; to evaluate whether this effect depends on composition of the maintenance diet (i.e., standard chow compared with diets high in energy, fat, and sugar [HE diets]); and to determine whether the phenotype of the rats with regard to propensity to gain weight on HE diets affects the consequences of consuming high-intensity sweeteners. The data demonstrated that female rats fed a low-fat, standard laboratory chow diet did not gain extra weight when fed yogurt dietary supplements sweetened with saccharin compared with those fed glucose-sweetened dietary supplements. However, female rats maintained on a "Westernized" diet high in fat and sugar (HE diet) showed significant increases in energy intake, weight gain, and adiposity when given saccharin-sweetened compared with glucose-sweetened yogurt supplements. These differences were most pronounced in female rats known to be prone to obesity prior to the introduction of the yogurt diets. Both selectively bred Crl:OP[CD] rats and outbred Sprague-Dawley rats fed an HE diet showing high levels of weight gain (diet-induced obese [DIO] rats) had increased weight gain in response to consuming saccharin-sweetened compared with glucose-sweetened supplements. However, in male rats fed an HE diet, saccharin-sweetened supplements produced extra weight gain regardless of obesity phenotype. These results suggest that the most negative consequences of consuming high-intensity sweeteners may occur in those most likely to use them for weight control, females consuming a "Westernized" diet and already prone to excess weight gain.<<<<
Selenomethionine protects against neuronal degeneration by methylmercury in the developing rat cerebrum.<<<<Although many experimental studies have shown that selenium protects against methylmercury (MeHg) toxicity at different end points, the direct interactive effects of selenium and MeHg on neurons in the brain remain unknown. Our goal is to confirm the protective effects of selenium against neuronal degeneration induced by MeHg in the developing postnatal rat brain using a postnatal rat model that is suitable for extrapolating the effects of MeHg to the fetal brain of humans. As an exposure source of selenium, we used selenomethionine (SeMet), a food-originated selenium. Wistar rats of postnatal days 14 were orally administered with vehicle (control), MeHg (8 mg Hg/kg/day), SeMet (2 mg Se/kg/day), or MeHg plus SeMet coexposure for 10 consecutive days. Neuronal degeneration and reactive astrocytosis were observed in the cerebral cortex of the MeHg-group but the symptoms were prevented by coexposure to SeMet. These findings serve as a proof that dietary selenium can directly protect neurons against MeHg toxicity in the mammalian brain, especially in the developing cerebrum.<<<<
An empirical approach to sufficient similarity: combining exposure data and mixtures toxicology data.<<<<When assessing risks posed by environmental chemical mixtures, whole mixture approaches are preferred to component approaches. When toxicological data on whole mixtures as they occur in the environment are not available, Environmental Protection Agency guidance states that toxicity data from a mixture considered "sufficiently similar" to the environmental mixture can serve as a surrogate. We propose a novel method to examine whether mixtures are sufficiently similar, when exposure data and mixture toxicity study data from at least one representative mixture are available. We define sufficient similarity using equivalence testing methodology comparing the distance between benchmark dose estimates for mixtures in both data-rich and data-poor cases. We construct a "similar mixtures risk indicator"(SMRI) (analogous to the hazard index) on sufficiently similar mixtures linking exposure data with mixtures toxicology data. The methods are illustrated using pyrethroid mixtures occurrence data collected in child care centers (CCC) and dose-response data examining acute neurobehavioral effects of pyrethroid mixtures in rats. Our method shows that the mixtures from 90% of the CCCs were sufficiently similar to the dose-response study mixture. Using exposure estimates for a hypothetical child, the 95th percentile of the (weighted) SMRI for these sufficiently similar mixtures was 0.20 (i.e., where SMRI <1, less concern; >1, more concern).<<<<Cumulative risk assessment;hazard index;pyrethroids;sufficient similarity;whole mixtures
Thromboembolic events associated with immunoglobulin treatment.<<<<Due to an increasing number of reported thromboembolic events (TEE) after the administration of one intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and one subcutaneous immunoglobulin (SCIG), pharmacovigilance and laboratory data were collected to analyse the root cause and assess the reporting frequency of TEEs for various IG products. Paul-Ehrlich-Institut retrospectively analysed 228 reports of TEEs associated with six different IG products and estimated annual TEE-reporting rates based on worldwide sale figures over a period of 6 years (2006-2011). In addition, non-activated partial thromboplastin time (NAPTT) testing was performed to capture pro-coagulant potential of six IG products (four IVIG and two SCIG). For three IVIGs, the drug-related TEE-reporting rates remained stable from 2006 to 2011 (0-0·83 cases per 1000 kg IVIG distributed). In contrast, the TEE rate of one IVIG increased significantly from 0·33 cases in 2006 to nearly nine cases in 2010 (P < 0·001). The NAPTT testing of IG products with a low TEE rate revealed a NAPTT time >200 s and a NAPTT ratio >0·8, whereas TEE-associated batches of IG products with an increased TEE rate had a NAPTT ratio <0·8. After modifications of manufacturing processes, a normalization of NAPTT results and a decrease in TEE rates could be demonstrated.<<<<
Tyrosine kinase inhibitor-induced thyroid disorders: a review and hypothesis.<<<<Thyroid dysfunction is a well-known adverse effect of sunitinib, a drug that targets multiple receptor tyrosine kinases, including vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR). As several kinds of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are now available, this has been postulated to be a side effect of the TKIs that target the VEGFR (VEGF-TKIs). However, sunitinib, one of the first-generation TKIs, likely causes thyroid dysfunction more frequently than other TKI classes, leading not only to hypothyroidism, but also to thyrotoxicosis. Based on the reports published to date, including our own studies, we have hypothesized that sunitinib may exert these effects, because it targets a broad spectrum of tyrosine kinases. This not only includes VEGFR2, but also VEGFR1 and the platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR). This, in turn, may suggest that not only VEGFR2 but also the PDGFR and/or the VEGFR1 play an important role during angiogenesis in the thyroid. Our current hypothesis may explain the mechanisms that underlie TKI-induced thyroid disorders. By learning how various kinds of TKIs affect thyroid function, we may elucidate how the angiogenesis in thyroid is regulated both physiologically and pathologically.<<<<
Treatment of pretibial myxedema with dexamethazone injected subcutaneously by mesotherapy needles.<<<<Pretibial myxedema (PTM) is a rare extrathyroidal manifestation of Graves' disease that requires treatment when the clinical picture is markedly evident. In addition to topical treatment with steroid ointments, there have been previous reports of subcutaneous injections of steroids. This procedure may cause nodular degeneration of the skin due to fat atrophy when standard needles are used. In the present study, we have tried a novel modality of treatment of PTM by injecting a solution of dexamethasone in the subcutaneous tissue using needles employed for mesotherapy. These needles are ≤4 mm long and deliver the medication within the dermis or the first layer of the subcutaneous fat. We have treated five patients, four with diffuse and one with elephanthiasic PTM. We utilized multiple injections of a solution of dexamethasone, lidocaine, and saline in the PTM plaque and in the pretibial area, both in the PTM plaque and in the area surrounding the lesions, once a week for three consecutive weeks. Two patients with a more severe form of PTM underwent another two cycles four to six weeks after initial treatment. Patients were studied before and after treatment by clinical assessment and ultrasound of the pretibial skin. The treatment was well-tolerated, with only moderate pain upon injection of the solution. One month after treatment, all patients showed improvement of PTM at clinical assessment and a reduction of the thickness of the lesions at ultrasound of ∼15%, involving mostly the dermis. Moreover, all patients reported amelioration of the leg appearance. The present study, although preliminary, shows that intralesion steroid injection with mesotherapy needles in PTM is effective and well tolerated, and does not cause undesired long-term modifications of the skin. More studies are warranted to standardize such treatment in larger groups of patients.<<<<
Stent graft infection in the lower limb.<<<<Poor wound healing can occur after limb amputation. We describe the case of a patient with a persistent fistula after below-knee amputation. The fistula is maintained due to an infected stent graft. After removal of the stent graft and adequate antibiotic treatment the wounds healed and extended amputation was avoided. The diagnosis of stent graft infection is challenging and requires aggressive treatment to prevent further amputation.<<<<
Discussion on adverse reactions monitoring modes of drug manufacturers under new measures for administration of adverse drug reaction report and monitoring.<<<<To discuss the modes for smooth progress of ADR monitoring under the new Measures for the Administration of Adverse Drug Reaction Report and Monitoring. Work modes for ADR monitoring in drug manufacturers were explored by explaining the new Measures and analyzing current state and constrains. As there is a larger gap between the requirements of new Measures and current status, it is difficult for drug manufacturers to meet all the requirements in short-term. Therefore, drug manufacturers are suggested to gradually complete ADR monitoring under the mode of one platform and four expansions, and thereby finally meeting the requirements of new Measures and fulfilling their duties and missions.<<<<
Hemorrhagic stroke in young healthy male following use of sports supplement Jack3d.<<<<A 26-year-old male was presented to a military treatment facility in Afghanistan shortly after taking a weight-lifting supplement called Jack3d with a severe headache and was subsequently found to have suffered a Dejerine-Roussy variant right thalamic hemorrhagic stroke. Jack3d active ingredients include geranamine, schizandrol A, caffeine, beta-alanine, creatine monohydrate, and L-arginine alpha-ketoglutarate. A literature search revealed case reports suggesting some of the constituent ingredients may predispose to stroke and hemorrhage and also revealed a substantial paucity of data existed regarding schizandrol A, a herb used in traditional eastern medicine. The product has no readily apparent disclaimer or warning regarding the risks or lack of data regarding the components. Jack3d is sold as a nutritional supplement and is therefore not subject to same FDA regulation and scrutiny that a pharmaceutical receives. The potential adverse effect was reported to the FDA via MedWatch in accordance with the recently passed Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act.<<<<
The effect of addition of pregabalin and s-ketamine to local infiltration analgesia on the knee function outcome after total knee arthroplasty.<<<<Pain reduction is important for early mobilization after total knee arthroplasy. Recent studies show that local infiltration analgesia and addition of anti-hyperalgesic drugs (pregabalin and s-ketamine) may improve postoperative analgesia and mobilization. This pilot study was meant to evaluate if this new method of analgesia might improve patients' ability to exercise in the first postoperative days. The secondary goal was to determine what side effects could be expected by using this drug combination. A pilot study showed that patients achieved knee flexion of 88.5 degrees (SD 9.6) already on the second postoperative day. The side effects were mild and mostly self-limiting.<<<<
Mutagenicity and genotoxicity of water treated for human consumption induced by chlorination by-products.<<<<Water used for human consumption may contain mutagens and carcinogens generated during the disinfection process with chlorine. In the study described in this article, the mutagenicity and genotoxicity of water samples taken from the San Cristobal treatment plant in Medellin, Colombia, were evaluated. Short-term mutagenic and genotoxic assays using the Ames test and comet assay, respectively, were employed to examine the genotoxic activity of the extracts of these water samples. Two samples were taken before and after the chlorination process. The treated water samples without chlorination did not show mutagenic effects using the Ames test, while the chlorinated samples produced mutagenic activity in both strains. A dose-response relationship for the comet assay was obtained only in the chlorinated samples. MX (3-chloro-4-[dichloromethyl]-5-hydroxy-2[5H]-furanone), E-MX ([E]-2-chloro-3-[dichloromethyl]-4-oxobutenoic acid), and some trihalomethanes were detected at low concentrations. These concentrations were enough, however, to cause detectable mutagenic and genotoxic activity in the extracts of chlorinated water samples.<<<<
Evidence for long-term use of intramuscular interferon beta-1a: an overview of relapse, disability, and MRI data from selected clinical trials.<<<<The treatment options for multiple sclerosis are rapidly changing. With the increasing number of products available to treat this disease, treatment decisions are becoming more complex. Over the years, diagnosis and assessment of treatment efficacy in multiple sclerosis have evolved, but the primary endpoints used to evaluate patients have remained relatively consistent. Relapse rates, magnetic resonance imaging parameters, and disability progression are all key considerations when assessing efficacy for multiple sclerosis treatments. As selection of therapy becomes increasingly complex for both patients and physicians, risk-benefit considerations that incorporate long-term efficacy and safety on an individualized basis will be of greater importance. The information provided in this article will help to elucidate these considerations.<<<<
Early fungal infection in an aortic prosthesis with probable cerebral metastasis: the success of a conservative strategy.<<<<Infection of an aortic prosthesis presents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. Fungal infections are rarely described and among these Candida spp. are the most prevalent agents. Although the therapeutic approach to prosthetic bacterial infection may be conservative, in the case of fungal etiology, surgery, such as the removal and substitution of the device, debridement and repair of the infected prosthesis is usually warranted. The authors describe the case of a 48-year-old man, with a thoraco-abdominal aneurysm of the aorta, submitted to surgery for insertion of a prosthetic aortic duct. The procedure was made difficult by Candida albicans empyema associated with an aortic prosthesis infection that was complicated by probable cerebral metastasis. Antifungal therapy was the initial option, as the steady clinical, laboratory and radiological improvement deferred a surgical intervention. This case demonstrates the success of a conservative approach in a very serious fungal infection of a thoraco-abdominal aorta prosthesis.<<<<
Alternaria alternata invasive fungal infection in a patient with Fanconi's anemia after an unrelated bone marrow transplant.<<<<Alternaria spp. have emerged as opportunistic pathogens particularly in immunosuppressed patients, such as bone marrow transplant recipients. The authors present a case of Alternaria alternata in a patient with Fanconi's anemia, who received antifungal prophylaxis with posaconazole after an unrelated bone marrow transplantation, followed by empirical antifungal treatment with caspofungin when persistent fever emerged until cutaneous lesions eventually appeared. At that time there were clinical reasons to assume that the patient had an infection with an emerging fungus. This consideration triggered a change of the antifungal therapy from caspofungin to liposomal amphotericin B. After collecting sufficient evidence for the presence of an invasive fungal infection by A. alternata and given the severity of neutropenia and other immunosuppression, oral posaconazole was added to liposomal amphotericin B. The course of disease in this case suggests a possibly synergistic interaction between liposomal amphotericin B and posaconazole when administered simultaneously to treat an invasive systemic infection by Alternaria spp. in immunocompromised patients.<<<<
Widespread skin nodules as a manifestation of breakthrough invasive aspergillosis in a bone marrow transplant patient.<<<<Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a life-threatening complication of bone marrow transplantation manifesting most often as a respiratory tract infection with potential hematogenous dissemination to any organ. The authors report an unusual case of IA manifesting as widespread subcutaneous nodules, with intact overlying skin, complicating pulmonary infection in a transplanted patient who received mold-active antifungal prophylaxis. The present case emphasizes the relevance of cellular immunity, in particular T lymphocytes, in the control of invasive fungal disease and highlights the potential role of positron emission tomography scan in assessing its dissemination.<<<<
Optimizing asparaginase therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.<<<<Asparaginases are important agents used in the treatment of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Three types of asparaginase are currently available: two are derived from Escherichia coli [native asparaginase and pegylated asparaginase (PEG-asparaginase)] and one from Erwinia chrysanthemi (crisantaspase). All three products share the same mechanism of action but have different pharmacokinetic properties, which do not make them easily interchangeable. Among the known toxicities and side-effects, allergic reactions and silent inactivation represent the most important limitations to the prolonged use of any asparaginase product, with associated reduced therapeutic effects and poorer outcomes. Routine real time monitoring can help to identify patients with silent inactivation and facilitate a switch to a different product to ensure continued depletion of asparagine, completion of the treatment schedule and maintenance of outcomes. However, the most appropriate second-line treatment is still a matter of debate. PEG-asparaginase has lower immunogenicity and a longer half-life than native Escherichia coli (E. coli) asparaginase, which makes it useful for both first-line and second-line use with a reduced number of doses. However, PEG-asparaginase displays cross-reactivity with native E. coli asparaginase that may harm its therapeutic effects. Crisantaspase does not display cross-reactivity to either of the E. coli-derived products, which has made crisantaspase the second-line treatment option in a number of recent protocols. As crisantaspase has a much shorter biological half-life than the E. coli-derived products, the appropriate dosage and administration schedule are of paramount importance in delivering treatment with this product. In the ongoing trial AIEOP-BFM ALL 2009 (Associazione Italiana Ematologia Oncologia Pediatrica - Berlin-Franklin-Munster), in which PEG-asparaginase is used first-line, one dose of PEG-asparaginase is substituted by seven doses of crisantaspase given intravenously at 20,000 IU/m2 on alternate days when clinical allergy or silent inactivation is present. Based on the indications of different protocols, lack of cross-reactivity to the E. coli-derived products and taking into consideration regulatory factors and availability, crisantaspase may be considered a viable second-line therapy.<<<<
Short and long term gene expression variation and networking in human proximal tubule cells when exposed to cadmium.<<<<Cadmium (Cd²⁺) is a known nephrotoxin causing tubular necrosis during acute exposure and potentially contributing to renal failure in chronic long-term exposure. To investigate changes in global gene expression elicited by cadmium, an in-vitro exposure system was developed from cultures of human renal epithelial cells derived from cortical tissue obtained from nephrectomies. These cultures exhibit many of the qualities of proximal tubule cells. Using these cells, a study was performed to determine the cadmium-induced global gene expression changes after short-term (1 day, 9, 27, and 45 μM) and long-term cadmium exposure (13 days, 4.5, 9, and 27 μM). These studies revealed fundamental differences in the types of genes expressed during each of these time points. The obtained data was further analyzed using regression to identify cadmium toxicity responsive genes. Regression analysis showed 403 genes were induced and 522 genes were repressed by Cd²⁺ within 1 day, and 366 and 517 genes were induced and repressed, respectively, after 13 days. We developed a gene set enrichment analysis method to identify the cadmium induced pathways that are unique in comparison to traditional approaches. The perturbation of global gene expression by various Cd²⁺ concentrations and multiple time points enabled us to study the transcriptional dynamics and gene interaction using a mutual information-based network model. The most prominent network module consisted of INHBA, KIF20A, DNAJA4, AKAP12, ZFAND2A, AKR1B10, SCL7A11, and AKR1C1.<<<<
Multiple sclerosis spasticity: 'state-of-the-art' questionnaire survey of specialized healthcare professionals.<<<<Spasticity (muscle rigidity and spasms) is a frequent and disabling feature of multiple sclerosis (MS), and it can have a marked negative impact on the patient's overall wellbeing and quality of life through a range of symptoms including impaired mobility, bladder dysfunction, stiffness, spasms and sleep disorders. Numerous antispastic agents such as baclofen and tizanidine, as well as others, are available for the management of MS spasticity but, overall, they offer limited clinical benefit. The current questionnaire survey assessed the epidemiology and management of MS spasticity globally and across the EU, among 157 healthcare professionals (>95% of all respondents were neurologists) attending a large, international MS congress (European Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis, Lyon, France, 10-13 October 2012). Survey results showed similarity between the EU and rest-of-world respondents in the epidemiology of MS spasticity, the use of assessment tools to monitor patients, the incidence and severity of symptoms, and management options. Respondents indicated that approximately 40% of their MS patients had spasticity and it was rated as mild in approximately 40%, moderate in 35% and severe in 25% of patients. At least 40% of practitioners were dissatisfied with treatment options in their patients with moderate-to-severe MS; this highlights the unmet needs and challenges facing specialists in the management of MS patients with moderate-to-severe spasticity.<<<<
A new multiple sclerosis spasticity treatment option: effect in everyday clinical practice and cost-effectiveness in Germany.<<<<Sativex® (GW Pharmaceuticals PLC, Porton Down, UK; Laboratorios Almirall, SA, Barcelona, Spain), a cannabinoid oromucosal spray containing a 1:1 ratio of 9-δ-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol, has been licensed in Germany since July 2011 as add-on therapy for moderate-to-severe multiple sclerosis (MS) treatment-resistant spasticity symptoms. The 'MOVE 2' study evaluated clinical outcomes, treatment satisfaction, quality of life (QoL) and provision of care in MS patients with spasticity receiving Sativex in everyday clinical practice. Data from 300 patients were collected from 42 specialized MS centers across Germany and were available for this analysis. Assessments, including the MS spasticity 0-10 numerical rating scale, modified Ashworth scale, patients' and physicians' clinical impressions, and QoL scales were rated at baseline and at 1 and 3 months after starting treatment with Sativex. Sativex provided relief of MS-related spasticity in the majority of patients who were previously resistant to treatment. In addition, clear improvements were noted in MS spasticity-associated symptoms (e.g., sleep quality, bladder function and mobility), activities of daily living and QoL. Sativex was generally well tolerated. The majority of patients (84%) reported no adverse events, and there was only a limited risk of serious adverse reactions. Furthermore, based on data from Sativex clinical trials, a Markov model-based analysis has shown that Sativex is a cost-effective treatment option for patients with MS spasticity in Germany.<<<<
Endocannabinoid system modulator use in everyday clinical practice in the UK and Spain.<<<<Spasticity is a disabling complication of multiple sclerosis. Some commonly used oral medications include baclofen, tizanidine, anticonvulsants and benzodiazepines, but their benefits are modest. Sativex® (GW Pharmaceuticals PLC, Porton Down, UK; Laboratorios Almirall, SA, Barcelona, Spain) is a unique cannabinoid-based medicine with two main active ingredients; 9-δ-tetrahydrocannabinol, which acts mainly on cannabinoid 1 receptors in the CNS and plays a key role in the modulation of spasticity and spasms, and cannabidiol, which has different properties, including minimization of the psychoactivity associated with 9-δ-tetrahydrocannabinol. Sativex is indicated for symptomatic improvement in adult patients with moderate-to-severe multiple sclerosis-related spasticity who have not responded adequately to other first- or second-line antispasticity medications, and who demonstrate clinically significant improvement in spasticity-related symptoms during an initial trial of therapy. Over the past couple of years, Sativex has been approved for use in a number of European countries and ongoing postmarketing studies are evaluating the possible risks associated with Sativex treatment by systematically collecting all suspected adverse reactions that occur in patients from the start of treatment. Interim data from the UK as well as Spanish Sativex safety registries confirm that clinical benefit is maintained over the longer term despite the expected trend for deterioration owing to disease progression. Even after more than 2 years of use, no new safety/tolerability signals have emerged with Sativex, including no evidence of driving impairment and no relevant incidence of falls or other adverse events of concern, such as psychiatric or nervous system events. Sativex appears to be a well-tolerated and useful add-on therapy in patients who have not achieved an adequate response with traditional antispastic agents.<<<<
Teriparatide in the treatment of non-unions: scientific and clinical evidences.<<<<Each fracture has a failing risk which can lead to a non-union. Among the non-invasive strategies proposed to improve bone healing, also in non-union, the use of teriparatide, a drug for the treatment of the osteoporosis, has increasing supporting data. Many studies mainly on rats, but also on primates, demonstrate the positive effect on fracture healing of teriparatide, both in physiological and pathological conditions, with a more rapid evolution of the reparative callus. A double blinded randomized controlled study on wrist fractures demonstrated a positive effect, in term of healing speed, of teriparatide at the dose of 20 μg/day, but not at the higher dose of 40 μg/day. A prospectic randomized study on pelvic fractures showed a faster healing in teriparatide treated patients. The use of teriparatide in non-unions is reported as effective in numerous case report. The effect of teriparatide seems very useful in the non-unions consequent to an atypical femoral fracture after long-term administration of bisphosphonates. A conceivable positive effect of teriparatide on fracture healing is well-documented on animals, and very likely on humans, however further studies are needed to confirm these hopeful hypotheses.<<<<
Monitoring of deiodinase deficiency based on transcriptomic responses in SH-SY5Y cells.<<<<Iodothyronine deiodinase types I, II, and III (D1, D2, and D3, respectively), which constitute a family of selenoenzymes, activate and inactivate thyroid hormones through the removal of specific iodine moieties from thyroxine and its derivatives. These enzymes are important in the biological effects mediated by thyroid hormones. The expression of activating and inactivating deiodinases plays a critical role in a number of cell systems, including the neuronal system, during development as well as in adult vertebrates. To investigate deiodinase-disrupting chemicals based on transcriptomic responses, we examined differences in gene expression profiles between T3-treated and deiodinase-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells using microarray analysis and quantitative real-time RT-PCR. A total of 1,558 genes, consisting of 755 upregulated and 803 downregulated genes, were differentially expressed between the T3-treated and deiodinase-knockdown cells. The expression levels of 10 of these genes (ID2, ID3, CCL2, TBX3, TGOLN2, C1orf71, ZNF676, GULP1, KLF9, and ITGB5) were altered by deiodinase-disrupting chemicals (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, polychlorinated biphenyls, propylthiouracil, iodoacetic acid, methylmercury, β-estradiol, methimazole, 3-methylcholanthrene, aminotriazole, amiodarone, cadmium chloride, dimethoate, fenvalerate, octylmethoxycinnamate, iopanoic acid, methoxychlor, and 4-methylbenzylidene-camphor). These genes are potential biomarkers for detecting deiodinase deficiency and predicting their effects on thyroid hormone production.<<<<